Add post: Scale up Cockpit troubleshooting to your computing fleet (#322)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2020-05-06-cockpit-ansible.md

---
title: Scale Cockpit troubleshooting to your computing fleet
author: pitti
date: 2020-05-06
category: announcement
tags: cockpit selinux ansible scaling troubleshooting
comments: true
---

> You know Cockpit as a troubleshooting and learning tool for an individual machine. But once you discovered and tested a solution, wouldn't it be nice to apply it to all your other machines in your data center? Of course not every problem works that way: you don't extend an LVM with a new hard disk on a hundred machines at the same time. But there *are* situations where this makes sense, for example adjusting the [SELinux policy](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/what-is-selinux) to your needs.

Author: Why the "might think of"? That sounds like it would be wrong, but it's how we want to, and are, posing it. :+1 for the other suggestions.

> You know Cockpit as a troubleshooting and learning tool for an individual machine. But once you discovered and tested a solution, wouldn't it be nice to apply it to all your other machines in your data center? Of course not every problem works that way: you don't extend an LVM with a new hard disk on a hundred machines at the same time. But there *are* situations where this makes sense, for example adjusting the [SELinux policy](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/what-is-selinux) to your needs.

Reviewer: "You might know Cockpit as..." could also work.

You need a _might_ or _may_  in there. People reading this might not even know about Cockpit. Or might just barely know about it.

Other options:
- "Cockpit is usually thought of as a troubleshooting..."
- "Cockpit is generally known as a troubleshooting..."

Also:
Using the phrase "learning tool" sounds like education and that you'd grow away from Cockpit. Like graduating from school.

> You know Cockpit as a troubleshooting and learning tool for an individual machine. But once you discovered and tested a solution, wouldn't it be nice to apply it to all your other machines in your data center? Of course not every problem works that way: you don't extend an LVM with a new hard disk on a hundred machines at the same time. But there *are* situations where this makes sense, for example adjusting the [SELinux policy](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/what-is-selinux) to your needs.

Author: Thanks for the explanation!

> [Cockpit 210](./cockpit-210.html) introduced a new approach that we want to explore: "Show me what I have done". If you apply SELinux policy changes, you can now see the changes compared to the Operating System defaults in human readable form, as well as a shell script or [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) [role](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks_reuse) that is suitable for automation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cockpit 210](./cockpit-210.html) introduced a new approach that we want to explore; asking the computer to "show me what I have done". 

Look at SELinux policy changes, compared to the defaults on a machine, in a human-readable form, as a shell script, or an [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) [role](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks_reuse). The shell script and Ansible role are both suitable for automation across multiple machines.
```

![SElinux autoscript ansible](/images/selinux-autoscript-ansible.png)

> Have a look at this 3.5 minute demo that shows the whole workflow from "I have a problem that I need to debug" over "I figure out the solution with Cockpit" to "I apply the tested solution to my entire fleet":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch the following short three-and-a-half minute demo covering the whole workflow — from "_there's a problem I need to debug_" to "_I'll figure out a solution with Cockpit_" and finally to "_I'll apply this tested solution to my entire fleet of computers_".
```

<iframe width="960" height="720" src="//youtube.com/embed/ChXoNofPIjw?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Not every page in Cockpit is amenable to this approach. First and foremost, Cockpit always shows the server's current *state*, not configuration. In a lot of cases it is not well-defined whether something that you see is configuration, or dynamic state (like the IP address of a DHCP network card) or even hardware properties (like the number, capacity, and serials of hard disks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this approach works for SELinux, not every part of Cockpit can be used in a manner like this. First and foremost, Cockpit always shows the server's current *state*, not its configuration. In a lot of cases, the difference between static configurations, dynamic state (like the IP address of a DHCP network card), or even hardware properties (like the number, capacity, and serials of hard disks) are not necessarily obvious at a glance.
```

Author: "configurations" sounds strange here, I think the singular is better.

But there are certainly more places and actions in Cockpit that are configuration, for example:

 * Enabling or disabling [Simultaneous Multi-Threading](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/L1TF) to mitigate CPU vulnerabilities
 * Enabling or disabling PCP, firewall, kdump, or general systemd units
 * Setting up automatic package updates

> Would these be useful to you? Do you have other ideas and use cases? We are looking forward to [your feedback](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Would copying the settings of these and applying them across other machines be useful to you? Do you have other ideas and uses for something like this? If so, please [give us your feedback](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues)!
```

![SElinux autoscript ansible](/images/selinux-autoscript-ansible.png)

Watch the following short three-and-a-half minute demo covering the whole workflow — from "_there's a problem I need to debug_" to "_I'll figure out a solution with Cockpit_" and finally to "_I'll apply this tested solution to my entire fleet of computers_".

<iframe width="960" height="720" src="//youtube.com/embed/ChXoNofPIjw?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

While this approach works for SELinux, not every part of Cockpit can be used in a manner like this. First and foremost, Cockpit always shows the server's current *state*, not its configuration. In a lot of cases, the difference between static configuration, dynamic state (like the IP address of a DHCP network card), or even hardware properties (like the number, capacity, and serials of hard disks) are not necessarily obvious at a glance.

> But there are certainly more places and actions in Cockpit that are configuration, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But there are certainly more configuration-related places and actions in Cockpit. For example:
```

Moved "configuration" earlier in the sentence, to get to the point more quickly. Simplified the sentence by splitting it apart too.
